# 4.1 - The Utils class

This is a Rosetta Stone of the functions in the Utils class and how to use them to make the lives of those developing on SparqNet easier.

* [Debugging through log prints](#debugging-through-log-prints)
* [Type conversions](#type-conversions)
* [StringContainer and its aliases](#stringcontainer-and-its-aliases)
* [Address manipulation](#address-manipulation)

## Debugging through log prints

Due to the Subnet's behaviour, when it is initialized (`subnet->start()`), printing details in the terminal via `std::cout` doesn't work as it should. To properly debug the Subnet, you have to use the functions `Utils::logToFile()` and `Utils::LogPrint()`.

The function `Utils::logToFile()` logs to the Node's `log.txt` file and requires only the string that will be logged. The function `Utils::LogPrint()` logs to the Node's `debug.txt` file and requires not only the string that will be logged, but also the function name (you can use the `__func__` macro here) and the module prefix from where the function is being called, that matches an item from the Log namespace (e.g. "Log::Subnet = 'Subnet::'").

Example:

```
Utils::logToFile("Logging");
// log.txt will say "Logging"

void testFunc() {
  Utils::LogPrint(Log::db, __func__, "Debugging");
  // debug.txt will say "DBService::testFunc: Debugging"
}
```

## Type conversions

In several points in SparqNet's code, raw bytes are used instead of hex strings, however both are treated as `std::string`, which can be confusing for whoever decides to print a "string" and gets a bunch of garbage instead of a "Hello World".

If this happens, throw the variable that has said data in the function `Utils::bytesToHex()` in case of a raw bytes string, or `Utils::hexToBytes()` in case of a hex string. Example:

```
std::string data = "0x1234567890abcdef";
std::string bytes = Utils::hexToBytes(data);
std::string hex = Utils::bytesToHex(bytes);
std::cout << data << std::endl;
std::cout << bytes << std::endl;
std::cout << hex << std::endl;
```

To convert integers to bytes and vice-versa, you should use the functions `Utils::uintXToBytes()` and `Utils::bytesToUintX()`, respectively. "X" is the integer size in bits - it can be 8, 16, 32, 64, 160 or 256.

Example:

```
uint64_t timestampOri = 1234567890;
std::string timestampBytes = Utils::uint64ToBytes(timestampOri);
std::string timestampHex = Utils::bytesToHex(timestampBytes);
uint64_t timestampNew = Utils::bytesToUint64(timestampHex);
std::cout << timestampOri << std::endl;
std::cout << timestampBytes << std::endl;
std::cout << timestampHex << std::endl;
std::cout << timestampNew << std::endl;
```

Alternatively, there are other helper functions:

* `Utils::uintToHex()` works with any uint, without having to know its size - e.g. `Utils::uintToHex(32)`.
* `Utils::hexToUint()` works the same way, however it only returns 256-bit integers.
* You can use the `HexTo` struct along with `boost::lexical_cast` to convert a hex string to other types:

```
std::string hex = "0x37285422";
uint256_t bigInt = boost::lexical_cast<HexTo<uint256_t>>(hex);
```

## StringContainer and its aliases

The StringContainer class abstracts a fixed-size string (e.g. `StringContainer<10>` is a string with **exactly** 10 characters).

Several frequently repeated types in the code are actually aliases to, or classes that inherit a StringContainer of a given size.

In case of confusion, refer to this simple guide:

* **PrivKey** is an alias to `StringContainer<32>`
* **UncompressedPubkey** is an alias to `StringContainer<65>`
* **CompresssedPubkey** is an alias to `StringContainer<33>`
* **Hash** is a class that inherits `StringContainer<32>`
* **Signature** is a class that inherits `StringContainer<65>`

To get the content of any StringContainer, use the `data()` function:

```
StringContainer<10> str = "HelloWorld";
std::cout << str.data() << std::endl;
```

## Address manipulation

Some Utils functions exist to make address manipulation easier:

* **toLowercaseAddress()** converts the address to an all-lowercase format (e.g. "0xacbdef...")
* **toUppercaseAddress()** converts the address to an all-uppercase format (e.g. "0XABCDEF...")
* **toChecksumAddress()** converts the address to a mixed-case format, also known as "checksum", according to the [EIP-55](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-55) specification (e.g. "0xaBcdEF...")
* **isAddress()** checks if a string is an address (size, format, and if the checksum is valid when in mixed-case)
* **checkAddressChecksum()** checks if the address checksum is correct

Example:

```
std::string addOri = "0x1a2b3c4d5e6f7e8d9c0b1a2b3c4d5e6f7e8d9c0b";
std::string addUpp = Utils::toUppercaseAddress(addOri);
std::string addLow = Utils::toLowercaseAddress(addUpp);
std::string addChk = Utils::toChecksumAddress(addOri);
std::string << addOri << std::endl;
std::string << addUpp << std::endl;
std::string << addLow << std::endl;
std::string << addChk << std::endl;
std::string << Utils::isAddress(addChk) << std::endl;
std::string << Utils::checkAddressChecksum(addChk) << std::endl;
```

There's no "default" behaviour per se, but it's ideal that addresses are always in **lower case**, converting to other types on-the-fly when required.

