# 2.2.2 - Database structure and manipulation

This subchapter explains how OrbiterSDK's internal database works and how data is stored in it.

## How to manipulate the database

The database itself is an abstraction of a [Speedb](https://github.com/speedb-io/speedb) database - a simple key/value database, but handled in a different way: keys use *prefixes*, which makes it possible to batch read and write, so we can get around the "simple key/value" limitation and divide data into sectors.

The database requires a filesystem path to open it (if it already exists) or create it on the spot (if it doesn't exist) during construction. To close the database, call the `close()` function.

For the main CRUD operations, refer to the `has()`, `get()`, `put()` and `del()` functions. There are also `getBatch()` and `putBatch()` for batched operations. Due to how the database works, updating an entry is the same as inserting a different value in a key that already exists (e.g. `put(oldKey, newValue)`).

## Structs and Prefixes

We have three helper structs to ease database manipulation:

* `DBServer` - struct that contains the host and version of the database that will be connected to
* `DBEntry` - struct that contains an entry to be inserted or read by the database, and has only two members: key and value, both strings
* `DBBatch` - struct that contains multiple `DBEntry`s to be inserted and/or deleted all at once

We also have a `DBPrefix` namespace to reference the database's prefixes in a simpler way:

| Descriptor | Prefix |
| --- |--------|
| Blocks | 0x0001 |
| BlockHeightMaps | 0x0002 |
| NativeAccounts | 0x0003 |
| TxToBlocks | 0x0004 |
| RdPoS | 0x0005 |
| Contracts | 0x0006 |
| ContractManager | 0x0007 |

Those prefixes are concatenated to the start of the *key*, so an entry that would have, for example, a key named "abc" and a value of "123", if inserted to the "0003" prefix, would be like this inside the database: `{"0003abc": "123"}`

## Prefixes Overview

### Blocks

Used to store serialized blocks based on their hashes.

| Key | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Prefix + BlockHash | Serialized Block |

### BlockHeightMaps

Used to store block hashes based on their heights.

| Key                                   | Value |
|---------------------------------------| --- |
| Prefix + Padded uint64\_t BlockHeight | BlockHash |

Padded means that the uint64\_t is padded with 0's to the left to ensure a fixed length of 8 bytes.

### NativeAccounts

Used to store serialized native accounts ("balance + nonce") based on their addresses.

| Key | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Prefix + Address | Serialized NativeAccount |

Serialization for a native account goes like this: `requiredBytes(balance) + bytes(balance) + requiredBytes(nonce) + bytes(nonce)`.

For example, an account with balance 1000000 and nonce 2 would be serialized as `03 + 0f4240 + 01 + 02`.

An account with balance 0 and nonce 0 would be serialized as `0000`.

### TxToBlocks

Used to store block hashes, the tx indexes within that block and the block heights, based on their transaction hashes.

| Key | Value                                                                  |
| --- |------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Prefix + TransactionHash | BlockHash + Padded uint32\_t BlockIndex + Padded uint64\_t BlockHeight |

Padded means that the uint32\_t and uint64\_t are padded with 0's to the left to ensure a fixed length of 4 and 8 bytes respectively.

### rdPoS

Used to store Validator addresses based on their index within the rdPoS list.

| Key                                      | Value |
|------------------------------------------| --- |
| Prefix + Padded uint64\_t ValidatorIndex | Address |

### Contracts

Used in a multitude of ways, where an "additional" prefix is used per contract (the contract address).

| Key                                           | Value                        |
|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| Prefix + Contract Address + "contractName"    | The Contract Class Name      |
| Prefix + Contract Address + "contractAddress  | The Contract Address         |
| Prefix + Contract Address + "contractCreator" | The Contract Creator Address |
| Prefix + Contract Address + "contractChainId" | The Contract ChainId         |

Contracts are free to use the contract prefix as they wish, but the following is the default structure for the contract prefix:

| Key                                                      | Value                                |
|----------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| Prefix + Contract Address + "VARIABLE\_NAME\_AS\_STRING" | The Contract Variable to store in DB |

### ContractManager

Used to store a contract class name based on their address.

| Key                                     | Value |
|-----------------------------------------| --- |
| Prefix + Contract Address | Contract Class Name |
