# 2.3 - Secp256k1, RandomGen and SafeHash

## Secp256k1

The **Secp256k1** namespace, declared in `utils/ecdsa.h`, contains functions that abstract the functionalities of Bitcoin's [secp256k1](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Secp256k1) elliptic curve cryptography library.

The library is commonly used for handling, deriving and recovering private/public keys and addresses, as well as signing and verifying signed messages.

The file also contains a few aliases for easier key handling, which are based on our own [string abstractions](2-5.md):

* **PrivKey** (same as **Hash**) - alias for a given private key
* **PubKey** (same as **FixedStr\<33>**) - alias for a *compressed* public key
* **UPubKey** (same as **FixedStr\<65>**) - alias for an *uncompressed* public key

## RandomGen

The **RandomGen** class, declared in `utils/randomgen.h`, contains the implementation of the RNG (Random Number Generator) used in [rdPoS](../ch4/4-2.md).

Not only it is responsible for guaranteeing a satisfactory level of randomness for the algorithm, it's also responsible for shuffling Validator lists.

## SafeHash

The **SafeHash** struct, declared in `utils/safehash.h`, contains a custom hashing implementation for use with `std::unordered_map`s, replacing the one used as default by C++'s std library. The reason this was implemented is [this article from CodeForces](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/62393).

Essentially, `std::unordered_map`, as it is on std, uses `uint64_t` hashes, which brings an edge case where collisions could happen, and all it takes is having many accounts and distributing them in a way that they have the same hash across all nodes.

This could be potentially dangerous in practice, but the article provides a fix, which we implemented so we could continue using `std::unordered_map`s normally as they have blazing fast query times. It's not a perfect fix, since it still uses `uint64_t`, but it's better than nothing since nodes keep different hashes.

The struct is mainly used like this: `std::unordered_map<Hash, uint64_t, SafeHash> cachedBlocks` - putting SafeHash as the third parameter in the map replaces the default hashing function used by it with our custom implementation.

