# 2.4 - Database

The **DB** class, declared in `utils/db.h`, is an abstraction of the internal database used by Sparq.

As the blockchain, up until the moment of writing this document, is running inside a sandbox and interfacing with AvalancheGo's VM, it's not possible to use our own custom database. We have to use the database provided by AvalancheGo via gRPC.

The database itself is a simple key/value database similar to Google's [LevelDB](https://github.com/google/leveldb) (in fact we're using it internally), but modified so that it's possible to batch read and write using a logic structure based on prefixes.

## Prefixes

The database has the following prefixes:

```
0001 -- Key: Block Hash | Value: Block
0002 -- Key: Block Height | Value: Block Hash
0003 -- Key: Tx Hash | Value: Transaction
0004 -- Key: Address | Value: Native Balance + Native Nonce
0005 -- ERC20 Tokens/State
0006 -- ERC721 Tokens/State
0007 -- Key: Tx Hash | Value: Block Hash
```

Those prefixes are concatenated to the start of the *key*, so an entry that would have, for example, a key named "abc" and a value of "123", if inserted to the "0003" prefix, would be like this inside the database: `{"0003abc": "123"}`

## Structs and namespaces

In the database implementation, there's a **DBPrefix** namespace to reference each prefix in a simpler way:

```
0001 = DBPrefix::blocks
0002 = DBPrefix::blockHeightMaps
0003 = DBPrefix::transactions
0004 = DBPrefix::nativeAccounts
0005 = DBPrefix::erc20Tokens
0006 = DBPrefix::erc721Tokens
0007 = DBPrefix::TxToBlocks
0008 = DBPrefix::validators
```

There are also three structs:

* `DBServer` - struct that contains the host and version of the database that will be connected to
* `DBEntry` - struct that contains an entry to be inserted or read by the database, has only two members: key and value, both strings
* `DBBatch` - struct that contain multiple `DBEntry`s to be inserted and/or deleted all at once

## How to manipulate the database

The **DB** class requires a file system path to open the database (if it exists) or create it on the spot (if it doesn't exist) during construction. To close the database, call the `close()` function.

For the main CRUD operations, refer to the `has()`, `get()`, `put()` and `del()` functions. There are also ´getBatch()` and `putBatch()` for batched operations, and a helper function called `stripPrefix()` that removes the prefix from a given key (e.g. key "0003abc" with value "123", `stripPrefix(key)` would return "abc").

Due to the way LevelDB works, updating an entry is the same as inserting a different value in a key that already exists - e.g. `put(oldKey, newValue)`.

