# 2.5 - Hex, FixedStr and derivatives

Due to the plethora of different ways that data strings are managed and transferred through the system, we created our own string abstractions to deal with them in a better, less confusing and less convoluted way.

## The FixedStr class

The **FixedStr** class, declared in `utils/strings.h`, is an abstraction of a normal `std::string`, but with a fixed size. For example, a `FixedStr<10> str;` would have *exactly* 10 characters in it - no more, no less. If initialized as an empty string, it will remain as a 10-character string nonetheless, albeit all characters would be "empty" (or `\x00` to be more exact).

This class is the base for all the other abstractions, except for Hex (more on that below), as all classes inherit from it with fixed sizes of their own:

* **Hash** inherits **FixedStr\<32>** and abstracts a given 32-byte hash
* **Signature** inherits **FixedStr\<65>** and abstracts a given ECDSA signature (all parts - r, s and v)
* **Address** inherits **FixedStr\<20>** and abstracts a given 20-byte address

Although the classes above are FixedStrs of their own, FixedStr can be used on its own as well. *It's meant to store any type of literal or bytes string*, in which case we use it frequently for the latter, as the network frequently interprets strings as raw bytes.

## The Hex class

The **Hex** class, declared in `utils/hex.h`, is also an abstraction of a `std::string`, but herein lies the difference compared to FixedStr - *it's meant to store ONLY valid and hex-formatted strings*, which means it can only store the characters `0x[1-9][a-f][A-F]`.

This is on purpose, as having a different class for pure hex strings makes it easier to discern what exactly we're working with. Not only the class filters any invalid character and refuses to build the string if it finds one of them, it can also be set to be strict or not (a strict hex string REQUIRES the `0x` prefix for it to be considered valid).

## TL;DR When do I use each one?

* Use **FixedStr** for any literal/bytes string, except hex
* Use **Hash**, **Signature** or **Address** for their respective use cases
* Use **Hex** specifically for any hex string

