# 3.1 - Contracts in Sparq

TODO: rhetoric is all over the place and making my head spin, better clarify it later

In a generic sense, contracts in Sparq are custom, developer-made C++ classes that directly interact with the current state of the blockchain, similar to Solidity contracts. They can be used to employ any type of logic within the network, with the advantage of not having the constraints of the EVM since they're native, compiled code.

In order to create a contract from scratch, besides having to create the contract logic in C++, you also have to code yourself several transaction parsing methods in order to parse the arguments of a given transaction calling your contract. Besides that, you also have to worry about storing your local variables in a database. For that reason and others, SparqNet is creating a Solidity to C++ transpiler.

## Solidity to C++ Transpiler

One of the main reasons to have a Solidity to C++ transpiler, besides being able to easily bring already existing Solidity developers into the SparqNet space, is to create the intermediary functions between the transaction in the state of the blockchain and the contract itself. Doing it dynamically is not only counterproductive to one of the main SparqNet philosophies (performance), but also introduces development barriers.

For example, the data field of a transaction of a user calling the function `transfer(address to, uint256 value)` of a given contract with the arguments `0x7e4aa755550152a522d9578621ea22edab204308` and `840000000000000000000` is going to result in:

`0xa9059cbb0000000000000000000000007e4aa755550152a522d9578621ea22edab20430800000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002d89577d7d40200000`

Where:

- `0xa9059cbb` is the function's functor (`keccak256("transfer(address,uint256)").substr(8)`)
- `0000000000000000000000007e4aa755550152a522d9578621ea22edab204308` is the encoded address
- `00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002d89577d7d40200000` is the encoded uint256

The possibility here is to simply have a `contractManager.processTransaction(tx)` inside the `State::processNewBlock` function, where all transactions that call contracts can be routed through a single place. The thing is that between `contractManager.processTransaction(tx)` and `transfer(address to, uint256 value)` of said contract, the arguments need to be parsed. Besides the right function being called, the transpiler comes into action by not only transpiling the Solidity source code, but also generating the functions needed for argument parsing and function selection.

Besides the argument and function parsing issues, as the contract is not running in a VM, the developer has to keep in mind about their local variables and store them in a DB when opening/closing the node. The Solidity to C++ transpiler takes care of these local variables inside the contract. One of the main differences between Solidity EVM and C++ Sparq contracts, is that by default databases are only used when opening the node (loading a past state when starting the node) and closing the node (saving the current state when closing the node). Local variables are kept in memory, whereas in Solidity, every call to a local variable is a database call.

If it's needed by the developer's contract to load something from DB during execution, he has the freedom to do so, but transpiled source code will always be at the contract's constructor/destructor.

One of the main features of Solidity is direct contract interaction - you are able to cast an "address" to a contract and call it. If that address contains a valid contract and if that contract matches the interface specified by the developer, it will successfully call that contract function and return it. Here's an example:

```js
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.10;

interface IERC20 {
  function balanceOf(address addr) external view returns (uint256);
}

contract GetERC20Balance {
  function getERC20balance(address contractAddr, address user) external view returns (uint256) {
    IERC20 tokenContract = IERC20(contractAddr);
    return tokenContract.balanceOf(user);
  }
}

```

In the above contract, the Solidity EVM casts the contract address into a contract with the IERC20 interface, enabling usage of the `balanceOf()` function.

On Sparq, as contracts are compiled directly with the blockchain itself, a class called **ContractManager** (declared in `contracts/contractmanager.h`) can be used to hold all contract instances in a polymorphic manner, and a reference from it be argumented to any contract (default in the base Contract class).

By using polymorphism it is possible to cast pointers from a given type (a generic contract stored inside a map on ContractManager) to a desired contract. See [ContractManager](#contractmanager) for more details.

The equivalent definition in C++ would be similar to:
```c++
uint256_t GetERC20Balance::getERC20Balance(const Address& address, const Address &user) {
  auto tokenContract = dynamic_cast<const ERC20&>(this->contractManager.getContract(address));
  return tokenContract.balanceOf(address);
}
```

Remember that `getERC20Balance()` is declared as `external view` in Solidity, which turns it into a `const` function in C++, forcing the contract cast to be `const` only, as this contract function cannot change the state.

The Solidity to C++ transpiler can be used in any type of Solidity source code as long it's compatible, and in two different ways: a "basic" mode and an "advanced" mode.

In the **basic** mode, the developer only declares the functions and local variables that they're going to use, so the transpiler can create both argument encoding and database functions necessary for the structure of the contract. **This is the recommended way**, as you will be sticking to code contract logic in C++.

In the **advanced** mode, the developer can input a full Solidity contract and it will convert all the logic in the implementation to C++ source code.

Of course, as the application grows and starts getting more complex, the transpiled Solidity source code might not be enough for the performance requirements, thus here is where the freedom of C++ shines.

The developer has the freedom to do whatever he wants with his contract - load it directly into the state without using ContractManager, not have to load every variable in the state, and other neat optimizations, as long as he is paying attention to what he's doing - it's C++ after all. With great power comes great segfaults.

Some Solidity features are **NOT** available on SparqNet through the transpiler:

- Interfaces¹
- Inline Assembly
- Solidity Version < 0.8
- Libraries²
- Some of Solidity global variables (such as basefee, gasleft, and others)
- Others.

¹ Interfaces are not supported, but you can include a Contract directly instead of using interfaces.
² Libraries will be implemented in the future.

The development of the Solidity to C++ project will follow simple steps. Many Solidity features will be unsupported at the start while we figure out how to adapt them in a static contract manner.

It is recommended to take a look over the Solidity compiler, and possibly use it's Abstract Syntax Tree.

## OpenZeppelin Libraries

As the majority of Solidity contracts uses OpenZeppelin libraries as their dependencies, Sparq Labs will be creating equivalents for these libraries without requiring the transpilation of the OpenZeppelin contract source code, simply linking with "openzeppelin" on the import (e.g. `import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC20/utils/SafeERC20.sol";`).

## Contract

The **Contract** class, declared in `contract/contract.h`, is the base class which all contracts derive from. This contract holds all the Solidity global variables, besides variables common among these contracts (such as contract address). See https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.17/units-and-global-variables.html for more details.

Attention to the callContractWithTransaction and the ethCallContract functions. callContractWithTransaction is used by the State when calling from processNewBlock(), while ethCallContract is used by RPC to answer for eth_call, strings returned by ethCallContract are hex strings encoded with the desired function result.

## ContractManager

The **ContractManager** class, declared in `contract/contractmanager.h`, is the class that holds all the current contract instances in the state, acting as the access point for contracts to access other contracts.

It's responsible for deploying the contracts in chain, loading them from DB when constructing and saving them to DB when deconstructing.

TODO: the function processTransaction would be similar to this:

```c++

void ContractManager::processTransaction(const Tx& transaction) {
    try {
        this->_contracts[transaction.to()]->callContractWithTransaction(transaction);
    } catch (std::exception &e) {
        // Something similar to this should be implemented
        // to know why a given transaction "reverted"
        // Logs are only stored in the local node, not serialized in txs.
        transaction.logs = e.what();
    }
}

```

## Example Contract

Giving the example Solidity contract:

```sol
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.10;

contract ExampleContract {
  mapping(address => uint256) values;
  function setValue(address addr, uint256 value) external {
    values[addr] = value;
    return;
  }
}

```

The transpiled code should look similar to this:

**Declaration**
```c++
ExampleContract.h

#include <...>
class ExampleContract : public Contract {
    private:
        std::unordered_map<Address, uint256_t> values;

        // Const-reference as they are not changed by the function.
        void setValue(const Address &addr, const uint256 &value);
    public:
        ExampleContract(const Address& contractAddress,
                        const uint64_t& chainId,
                        std::unique_ptr<ContractManager> &contractManager, std::unique_ptr<DBService&> db);

        void callContractWithTransaction(const Tx& transaction)

}
```

**Definition**
```c++
ExampleContract.cpp
#include "ExampleContract.h"

ExampleContract(const Address& contractAddress,
                const uint64_t& chainId,
                std::unique_ptr<ContractManager> &contractManager, std::unique_ptr<DBService&> db) :
                Contract(contractAddress, chainId, contractManager) {
                    // Read the "values" variables from DB
                    // Code generated by the transpiller from all local variables
                    // of the solidity contract, on the ExampleContract, you have values as a address => uint256 mapping
                    ...
                }

void ExampleContract::setValue(const Address &addr, const uint256 &value) {
    this->values[addr] = value;
    return
}

void ExampleContract::callContractWithTransaction(const Tx& transaction) {
    // CODE GENERATED BY THE TRANSPILLER
    // USED TO ROUTE AND DECODE TRANSACTIONS
    // THE IF USED HERE IS FOR EXAMPLE PURPOSES
    // THE GENERATED CODE WILL BE USING DIFFERENT STRING ALGORITHMS IN ORDER TO MATCH
    // FUNCTOR AND ARGUMENTS TO CONTRACT FUNCTION.
    std::string_view txData = transaction.getData();
    auto functor = txData.substr(0,8);
    // Keccak256("setValue(address,uint256)")
    if (functor == Utils::hexToBytes("0x48461b56")) {
        this->setValue(ABI::Decoder::decodeAddress(txData, 8), ABI::Decoder::decodeUint256(txData, 8 + 32));
    }
    return;
}

```

