# 1.1 - What is Sparq

## The Problem

Contracts on chains with Virtual Machines (EVMs), like Ethereum and other derived chains, have pretty limited speed and flexibility due to having to share a single, generic computer with limited throughput with the whole world.

This is inefficient by design - forcing the chain to be both generic and decentralized at the same time puts heavy limits on which types of applications you can decentralize and how much you can decentralize them.

For example, in the Ethereum EVM, you're *not* able to:

* Loop a function more than 50 times due to block gas limit constraints;
* Have a stack size larger than 16 variables due to constraints on the EVM itself;
* Parallelize multiple contract calls (as in, every time a new block has multiple transactions that interact with multiple different contracts, you have to load the contract, parse and save changes to the database for *each* single one of these contracts, *in order*).

As quoted by [Itamar](https://github.com/itamarcps): *"The biggest problem is that everyone is sharing the same computer, and that computer is a Commodore 64"*.

## The Solution

*Native blockchains*.

By having a natively-coded blockchain, it's possible to apply performance optimizations to the code for a specific application's implementation, while also providing the flexibility of developing in common performance-driven development languages, such as C++, C#, Rust, Go, and others.

The Sparq project provides developers with tools and documentation to ease the creation of application-specific Web2 chains, giving them the freedom they need.

## The Caveats (and Solution)

Of course, being a **native** and **application-specific** blockchain brings another set of problems:

* It's not as easy to push new contract code into the blockchain
  * If you want to add or remove logic from your contract in your network, you have to force a mandatory update to all of your node operators, which can eventually take *days*
* An application-specific chain is made for *only one* type of application. This would make DeFi impossible in theory, as most DeFi projects depend on interaction between each other and their contracts
  * For example, you have deployed a AAA game with NFTs in your blockchain, but forgot to add an NFT marketplace - now your users have to wait for days until A) you implement a marketplace, and B) everyone in the network updates their nodes to comply with your implementation

But what if you could *natively bridge* these assets between networks? This is what Sparq does. Sparq-enabled blockchains use the Sparq network as a middleman to communicate with each other, so neither network has to sync and verify each other's data completely.

## So what the hell is Sparq?

The Sparq project is made of two parts:

* An SDK for developers to easily build their application-specific native chains (hereby denominated [**OrbiterSDK**](https://github.com/SparqNet/orbitersdk-cpp)); and
* A network that allows the bridging of data and assets between those chains (hereby denominated **SparqNet**).

Therefore, blockchains built using OrbiterSDK are able to communicate with each other through SparqNet.
