# 1.2 - How consensus works

Being the implementation of a whole blockchain by itself, Sparq has to follow a set of rules to reach consensus in transactions and blocks, much like any other blockchain.

## rdPoS

To keep consensus on such a blazing fast network without tripping up and/or having to deal with rollbacks, we need a *random deterministic block creation* that allows only a given node to create a block for a given time, eliminating the risk of a block race condition in the network.

This is implemented in Sparq as its own Avalanche Subnet-compatible consensus algorithm, called **rdPoS (Random Deterministic Proof of Stake)**, which deals with block congestion and random number generation, and works with the concept of **Validators** and **Sentinels**.

Full details on how it all it works can be seen [here](TODO: link).

## Validators

Validators are nodes set up by the community that have locked at least 10,000 Sparq tokens through the `addValidator` transaction.

They create blocks, the "randomness" seed used to create them, and are responsible for gathering, signing and verifying them.

## Sentinels

Sentinels are similar to Validators, except they cannot create blocks nor act on their own, but rather work together with Validators to drive the network forward.

It is required that both randomly selected Validators and Sentinels send the same data to the requester, otherwise they'll be reported to the network as a malicious node.

Sparq Labs Inc. hosts them to ensure that won't happen.







TODO: move this to random.h

`RandomGen` (`random.h`) within the SparqNet code is a deterministic `uint256_t` generator used for almost everything related to consensus. This deterministic randomness assures that every node has a chance to answer for a given request (block, randomness, bridging, etc.), while ensuring that the selected nodes from the network are truly random and not malicious nodes selected by a malicious actor.

For `RandomGen` to be useful, it needs to be seeded with a truly random number. Our solution for that is as follows:

We have to pay attention to the current state of `RandomGen`, making sure that all nodes are always in the same internal state so they can properly sync with each other.






