# 1.2 - How Sparq works

## Validators

Validators are nodes set up by the community that have locked at least 10,000 Sparq through the `addValidator` transaction, using the validator's address as an argument.

They create blocks, the "randomness" seed, and are responsible for gathering and signing data on bridging and on blocks.

## Sentinels

Sentinels are similar to Validators, except they cannot *create* blocks nor act on their own.

It is required that both randomly selected validators and sentinels send the same data to the requester, otherwise they'll be reported to the network as a malicious node.

Sparq Labs Inc. hosts them to ensure that won't happen.

## Subnets

Subnets are blockchains built using the Sparq SDK and are able to communicate with the Sparq Network.

## Bridging

More details at [1.4 - Bridging](1-4.md).

### Sparq <-> Sparq

Bridging on the Sparq Network between two native chains goes like this:

- Subnet A requests Data X from Subnet B to the Sparq Network
- Sparq Network selects Y random Validators and Sentinels from the network using `RandomGen` (same in all nodes in the network)
- Nodes request Data X to Subnet B, receive it, sign it and send it back along with its signature to Subnet A
- Subnet A checks if everything matches, if not, someone is being malicious and can be reported to the network

### Sparq to External Network

TODO: multiple edge cases, need more discussion with devs. The problem is that you're not able to natively push data into these chains without paying transaction fees, besides them being limited on how much signature verification you can do, external networks might be only bridged by us to ensure safety.

## rdPoS

The biggest problem with the native blockchain is "how to keep consensus on such a fast network?". The answer is simple: random deterministic block creation only allows a given validator to create a block for a given time, eliminating the risk of a block race condition in the network.

This is implemented in Sparq as **rdPoS**, which stands for *Random Deterministic Proof of Stake*, and is composed of a *block congestion system* and a *random generator system*. More details at [1.3 - rdPoS](1-3.md).

`RandomGen` (`random.h`) within the Subnetooor code is a deterministic `uint256_t` generator used for almost everything related to consensus. This deterministic randomness assures that every node has a chance to answer for a given request (block, randomness, bridging, etc.), while ensuring that the selected nodes from the network are truly random and not malicious nodes selected by a malicious actor.

For `RandomGen` to be useful, it needs to be seeded with a truly random number. Our solution for that is as follows:

* Every time a new block is about to be created within the network, 16 random nodes are selected using `RandomGen` with the previous block randomness seed
* These nodes make a 32 bytes random string (RandomnessSeed) and hash it (RandomnessHash), then they sign the hash and publish it to the network
* After all nodes have signed and published their hashes to the network, they can post the true data without having to wonder if anybody is trying to manipulate the end result
* After the data is published and included in the block, the randomness seeds are concatenated and hashed, and the resulting hash is used to seed the next block creation

We have to pay attention to the current state of `RandomGen`, making sure that all nodes are always in the same internal state so they can properly sync with each other.

The genesis block enforces a given fixed randomness to be valid, since there is no previous block before genesis to derive the randomness from.

Several edge cases exist with this approach, for example, what happens if a node goes offline while assigned with something? There should be punishments for offline/deceiving nodes.

Besides that, we need to make rdPoS compatible with an Avalanche Subnet.

